[Music]
got
m
[Music]
i
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
a
[Applause]
[Music]
me
[Applause]
[Music]
foreign
so anyone and everyone who is joining us
for the first time just to let you know
this is the fourth session
in a series of sessions that we're doing
with abdul tankar so we are essentially
covering his experiences of the time
that he has spent with mother what he
has felt and
what exactly is the interpretation of
those experiences and how can we connect
in a better manner
with mother and become better yogis
so that has been the whole point of
creating these series of videos um
if you have not watched the other three
sessions you can go into the description
of this particular video you will find
the link of those videos as well you can
listen to those videos as well
in today's session we'll be talking
about uh the importance and the
understanding and how to go deeper in
meditation
so with mother's permission and
blessings i would like to start this
session yashimata jankal you would like
to start off you would like to start off
with a small silent meditation session
yes you can just uh
just remember
we will just slowly raise the kundalini
and put ourselves abundant
[Music]
and i will put our
right hand on the
heart
please come in my heart
let my heart be so clean that
i can see your graffiti in my heart let
me see your feet in my heart
let me worship your feet in my heart
let me not be in illusions
away the scene of superficiality
let me always feel your feet in my heart
in my heart
let me always worship your faith in my
heart
mother please come in my heart
and take down the hand
keep our attention on salsa
let me just be
beautiful instrument in your hands
mother
let my surrender be totally
let me go about the shackles of ego and
superior
if necessary you can just massage your
sahasrara with your hand
so that your attention remains there
just for some time
mother silent presence in our sahasraras
um
you can just
finish the meditation
with the third
mantra of the three maha mantras
[Music]
mmm
okay
after that session
uh
full with vibrations we
like to move on to
the next phase of this session so we've
spoken about your experiences with
mother uh the time you spend with mother
and
i'm sure
in your experience with sahaja yoga
you would have encountered multiple uh
experiences of
or levels of meditation as well okay so
we just wanted to translate your
experience to people who are listening
as well uncle
so
to move forward from here uncle i just
wanted to ask a very simple question
what is meditation what is it all about
and
uh what would be your advice if somebody
wants to go deeper into meditation what
would be your advice what would you the
direction from your side what you would
have learnt from mother and other yogis
till date uncle per your experience
last time we had talked about
uh
for the replying the question how to
meditate
we had said that
there is no method in sahaja yoga
there is no
you cannot say you do abcdefg and
finish you reach the sahasrara it's not
like this
but there are some parameters we have to
take into consideration
those parameters
are to be
whenever possible
to be
imbibed in our personal lives
now we have seen some of the those
parameters
now
this time we will see the last and the
most important parameter of shri
ganesha
Shri Mataji as we know
has
created us she has given us birth
exactly as shri ganesha
without the father
and he
knows only his mother he does not know
anybody else
if anybody wants to go deep into
this ganesh principle
there are three talks which really
impressed me
of course all the talks on sri ganesha
are very very
very good but these three particularly
uh i heard them quite a number of times
first is
the
muladhara
and mahamaya
muladhara and mahamaya
april 85 birmingham
then
Shri Ganesha puja
4th august 85
in brighton
and the third is
the
shri ganesh puja
september 1986 san diego usa
there is also so those who can
understand hindi
beautiful talk
1988 mumbai sri ganesh puja
I have
mentioned it earlier
of course the translation is available
the talk is in hindi but translation is
available on amruta
so
if you are
able to somehow get the blessings of sri
ganesha
it's much easier
i always feel that
we are surrendered to Shri Mataji but still
we do not really know her how she works
shri ganesha he
he knows her very well
and
if you are surrendered to him he can
take to
our dear mother
shri matari talks in 1983
ganesh puja
italy
he says just
catch hold of his two little
feet and he will take you
where
in the
on the very higher level of spirituality
sri ganesha who is always in nirvikalpa
Shri Mataji talks in
shere 1991
so he's the one who can take us to
nirvikalpa and
one more thing Shri Mataji  has
mentioned is
unless and until our
ganesh principle
is settled our realization has no
meaning
so this is the very first
deity first chakra
whom we have to
really try to nourish
and he is present on all the chakras
he gives as a vice chancellor again it's
86 Shri Ganesha puja san diego
puja it's a very very good talk
san diego
he gives the permission for the
kundalini to pass through every chakra
now
he also reminds us
in all the circumstances
whenever we hear the talks of Shri Mataji i
am sure hears them. We meditate we hear the talk and we forget about it
No. Shri Ganesha is the one
who
reminds us in every situation
there are lots and lots of talks of
Shri Mataji
and in which she has covered every single
situation in our life
for example at this moment
when the world is going through all
this turmoil
wars and everything going on
Covid coming up come going down
i am reminded of
Shri Mataji's  talk navarati in 1996
wherein Shri Mataji says
that
you ask a question
what will happen to my family
what will happen to my country
what will happen to Shri Mataji
what will happen to sahaja yoga
then you can also ask what will happen
to the world
and then she says
that your mother
not only believes in
giving you problems but she believes in
giving you solutions
and the solution is that
you have to be very strong very very
strong
for that meditation is very important
so
in all situations sri ganesha reminds
us
and shri ganesha also helps us to
forgive easily
the more we are innocent the
easier it is for us to forgive
now let see
what happens exactly inside us when we
meditate
is that
these
three channels
we have within us
the ida pingala sushumna
left side right side and
the
center
so these are
always
we are using them
now
what happens is
the kundalini goes
up
through the central channel it's called
brahma nadi
it's very very thin
now if this left side or right side is
stronger
then it presses the middle channel the
kundalini cannot go up
and when we meditate more and more
this
opens opens out
because first it is closed because of
left or right side then it opens out it
opens out more and more
and that tube is there
very easily kundalini can go up
Shri Mataji talks about it very beautifully
in sankranti puja
in mumbai
she calls it an axis
so this is what exactly happens when we
meditate
now
what are the effects of meditation
all these qualities of Shri Mataji
which has mentioned
of the spirit that we have
compassion
we have love we have forgiveness
witnessing power
all those things start manifesting
through our
you can say the spirit starts
manifesting in our attention
so more we meditate the more it
expresses
to give in an image i always give an
image it's like
you have got a bulb
you have got the wire and you have got
the electricity
now
the more there is
current more there is voltage
more there is light in the bulb
so the kundalini we can say
more it goes up
the more it gives
the brightness to our spirit the spirit
and the spirit shines more brighter and brighter
now what happens is when we are in
thoughtlessness
last time we spoke about it
Dushyant had asked me a question
in the day time
how to
keep our attention
normal
in all the circumstances is
that in thoughtlessness
that thoughtlessness once we meditate
deeply
that thoughtlessness
can remain
but let's see what happens exactly
we are a thoughtless she talks about it
in gudhi padwa 76
when you are in thoughtless awareness you
must know that you are in the kingdom of
god and his people his arrangements his
consciousness is going to look after you
you have to understand that when we say
mantras means prayers in all the other
ones also the other
religions all the other
uh
even in india everywhere we say prayers
but
the difference here is we get the
acknowledgement
we send it the delivery
with acknowledgement you get the
acknowledgement you get the uh
the realization that yes whatever i do
i can feel it it has worked it has
happened
it's just not
thoughts it's just not words
now
when we get our realization
there are three things which
happen within us
the three detection instruments one is
kundalini one is
sahasrara one is the vibration now
we have talked about it in the last
session
now let's see
sahasrara what happens
now sahasrara is the
satya khand Shri Mataji talks about it
in
what is sahasrara
talk about sahasrara 1983 delhi
so she says it's the satya khand so
whatever we feel on the sahasrara
has to be the truth
you might remember the promise which
Shri Mataji gave in how to meditate mumbai
she says i am with you all the time
everywhere
you just close your eyes and i am there
with you
where is she
she resides here
and she is always there always there all
we have to see is to just
see it and she is there
i always
give images
it's like when you see uh
your computer screen you don't want any
program you just put it in the bottom of
the screen when you click on that the
whole thing comes out. It’s the same thing
when you
put your attention on sahasrara
and feel it if you can feel her presence
and
we know she has redeemed us
she has she comforts us we have seen it
last time she comforts us
so all these
things happen
and she also
helps us out
in all the situations
also Shri Mataji says that
sahasrara is the only instrument which
will work out sahaja yoga in the
modern times
it's in sahasrara  puja 1991
because what happens is
when your sahasrara is open
all illusions all misunderstandings all
the false ideas
Shri Mataji says self-imposed ignorance
drops out
Shri Mataji talks about it in 1998
all these are
the effects of meditation
and this depth of meditation
give us gives us the faith
enlightened Shri Mataji talks about it in
easter puja
and what also happens is that it gives us
the surrendering powers
and the most important thing what
happens
is that it gives us the power
to
change our
surroundings how do we change our
surroundings is that more we go deeper
within ourselves
the more
our antennas grow outside
and those antennas now we know with
mobiles
they send
the waves (vibrations)
and that helps more we go deep the more
antenna goes up Shri Mataji talks about it very
well
in
uh
may 87 sydney i think so it’s the sixth of May
sydney she talks about it
and how does it happens is because of
the vibrations
now these vibrations
[Music]
are not something dead
so these vibrations are not something
dead stuff
it's something which is living it it
works
in december 78
somebody asked a question to Shri Mataji
it's a seven minute talk
what are vibrations
and in that Shri Mataji says that these
vibrations they have their
communication centers
they do everything
you don't do anything and
she repeats
they do everything you don't do
anything
so if that is the case
you should try to
emit those vibrations and that comes
also with the meditations
there is one
sahaja yogi
was one sahaja yogi mumbai
mr Phadke
he did a lot of
experiments  on vibrations
and he
told Shri Mataji
Shri Mataji also could help him out with
some replies
you see Shri Mataji insisted that he should
write a book of all these experiences
about vibrations
so this book it was written in marathi
it's on the divine cool breeze and it's
also
in english it was translated into
english
now
in this book you can see how the
vibrations have helped
in so many ways
I had
the honor of knowing him
he was like our family member
to come to our house
so humble
and so deep
so these things we can
really these are the things which we can
fill our
our sahasrara
i think so now it's high time we go
into meditation it's
it's very important to meditate because
i feel without meditation all words
remain the words
is the depth of the meditation which
really helps us
otherwise
we cannot realize Shri Mataji
and we have to realize Shri Mataji
we have to feel Her in our sahasrara
every time every moment of our life
so
you can just
bow down to Shri Mataji
and put a bandhan
we can
go into meditation afterwards
so we can all do it together
you can slowly raise our kundalini and
put ourselves as a bandhan
again
those are watching this
video
humbly pray at your lotus feet
and take your permission
to enter the state of meditation
please give us the permission
enter the state of meditation
you can see
the three mantras
oh
tommy
[Music]
my
moksha
[Music]
foreign
now we can just see some extract of
shimataji
in which he explains
what is the importance of meditation
so this is the extract of two talks
kundalini 1993
in the word 2002
so you can hear the root one
is of course very intimate
that you should be in my body
but
if you people are not meditating
it's very
mundane thing i must tell you
if you are not meditated then i have no
relationship with you
you are no not my relation
i you have no right on me
you have no question to be asked why
this is happening why that is happening
so if you do not meditate
i always say meditate meditating
i have nothing to do with you
and no more there for me
it has
no connection with you then you are like
all other people
you may be sahaja yogis you might have
got your sahaja yoga
degree from your leaders maybe i don't
know
and maybe that you are regarded as
something very great but
if you do not do your meditation
every day evening morning or evening
you will be really
not anymore in the realm
of shri
because the connection is only through
dhana through meditation
i've known people who do not do
meditation
then they suffer the children suffer
then something happens then they start
coming and telling me but i see clearly
that the person is not meditating i have
no relationship with him
he has no right to ask me anything
in the beginning of course the
meditation takes some time
but once you will know what is
meditation is how you enjoy my company
how you are one with me
how
we can have a rapport with each other
there's no need to have
anything else in between like
writing letters or maybe some sort of a
special connection nothing
only thing that is needed is the
meditation
in meditation you grow
in that spiritually you become higher
and when that happens
you start
in a way
i would say
that
when you reach a state
of
that
i should say
maturity in sahaja yoga
then you don't want to give up your
meditation because that time
you are absolutely one with me
that doesn't mean for three hours four
hours you should do meditation
but it is how much
intensely you are with me is important
now it is not how much time you are with
me
then i am responsible for it for your
children for everyone i am responsible
for your ascent
for your protection to save you from all
your negativity
so it's not like
a father
who will directly punish you
it's not that but it's just all right
you are not my relation i'm out
that's the only thing that can happen
if you are not meditating all right
i cannot force you
i have nothing to do with you you may
have other relationship outside outward
but this inner relationship by which you
get your benevolence
you cannot have without meditation
i've been telling all of you please
meditate please meditate everything
but i think people are also not
understanding the importance of what i
am saying because
they tell me mother we don't meditate
why now we are realizing so why should
we make it
now this instrument is fully made but if
it is not all the time connected for the
means what's the use of having it
in that meditation you will feel the
love
the divine love the beauty of that
divine love a complete
panorama changes
a meditative person has a very different
attitude a very different temperament a
very different life and he lives always
in complete satisfaction with himself
so today as being the first day as you
say
of the advent
say we can say that it is the first day
when the advent took place
as we are worshipping today of course it
was not today but still we can say that
if that is true
if it has happened
and it has been
helpful to you
it has been
a great blessing to you
then must know how to preserve it must
know how to enhance it must know how to
enjoy it
you should not just get satisfied with
one
you can say
a
one dance drama or one this thing one
that
but you should have a
full oneness
with the divine full oneness and that is
possible only if you really meditate
which is
quite a
easy thing to do to meditate is some
people say mother we cannot get over
time we cannot
think we are all the time thinking
something or that time we want to see
the
watch
in the beginning you may have a little
problem i am not saying you may not have
you may have but that's only in the
beginning but gradually you will be all
right
gradually you will master it
gradually you will
know it so well that you would not like
to have anything else
of a cheaper type you wouldn't care for
something
you see so
to
get to your
beauty to get to your glory to get to
your own great personality which is now
exposed
only thing you have to do really
religiously is to meditate
not that
every day you should do meditation
those who do not do meditation
are
capable of falling down
because meditation is like
putting oil
into the love
those who do not meditate think they can
do without it
are sadly mistaken
they have to
meditate morning and in
the problem is
everything comes so handy
so simple
that they don't understand
that meditation is very important
many people
not you but there are many i know
who get realization
don't meditate
and their
style is different
their nature is different
meditation is such a soothing thing such
a
beautiful way of connection
with the divine
that all your problems get solved
in that meditative mood
if you are not meditating
you are not following meditation
then maybe your light will go down
it won't give sufficient
is important
very important
to find out
about yourself about others
in the meditation
how to do meditation many people ask
don't do anything
to just go into thoughtless ways
try to go to the thoughtless awareness
if you can get into that
condition of thoughtless awareness
you've done yourself
because that's the point where
you are
with the truth
with the reality with the joy
with everything
that is so condemning
when you meditate try not to
not to make some sort of a
function out of it no
meditation is something
silencing yourself
silencing your thoughts
and
going
to that deep ocean which is within you
itself
but supposing
you don't do that
if you don't meditate
i can make out immediately
those who are meditating and those who
are
it's not difficult for me
those who do not meditate are always
hesitating
they are confused
they can't understand
and that's why meditation
is the most important thing in sahaja
yoga
just like a light bulbs
with the electricity flowing in it
thicker you can say
or by because of the candles
in the same way meditation
is a continuous availability
of the divine force
that will reduce all your apprehensions
not only that
but takes out all the negative thoughts
it takes out
all the
discouraging things
and when you are meditating like that
thoughtless awareness
then you'll be amazed
how you are helped
from within
and without
it's a terrible power that works this
thoughtless awareness
so those
who do not meditate
cannot go very much far
with the advantage of sahaja yoga
once you try
to meditate
and go up to the point of thoughtless
oil
so what happens to you
if you are in thoughtless awareness
what happens to you
is that
you get
the confidence
complete
confidence of divinity
it's only possible
when you meditate
and become thoughtlessly aware
that's the point where
your mind works
it helps
it comes to your
health in such a way
that you don't know
how you have achieved it
so thoughtless awareness
is the first point
all of you should achieve
very important
after that
we can achieve something else
but the first step is thoughtful
it's very important
to become
thoughtlessly aware
because then there are no thoughts
coming
from the left or right
from the present or the future
just in the present
you are there
it's something
you all have
it's not that
me i'm saying that to you
but all of you have this
but steady yourself
you have to steady yourself at
thoughtless awareness
how long
that's not the point the point is once
you've touched it
you'll go on touching it
many people
meditate but their thought
process is going on
they are not thoughtlessly
silent
now this is the one
point which is very important
if you have to grow
you should be absolutely in connection
with the divine
through thoughtless awareness
you don't have to pray
you don't have to call anyone nothing it
just works because it is within you
all these thoughts are bombarding from
both sides in your mind
these thoughts that are coming to you
have no meaning with you
they do not substantiate
yourself you are an ocean
and you have to get into that
state of thoughtless awareness
it is always described while meditating
go into thoughts away
no thought is important
because it's your own creation
but if you have to become with the
divine creation
you have to get
to that state of thoughtless awareness
minimum of meaning
once that comes to you gradually it will
grow
and you will be amazed how
you will be able to grow into sahaja
yoga
in a very big way
thank you very much
thank you srimati
for this beautiful words of wisdom
these explanations as only your mother
can tell
can explain
as we said earlier
the dtu can
really
take us to the nirvikalpa state
israeli ganesha
and just pray
ganesha
please forgive me you have done anything
wrong
against your principles
i am completely surrendered
to our mother to your mother
but i don't know her
please take me to her
with full devotion
we can say four times mantra oversee
shri ganesha with the right hand on the
mother earth
as if you're doing our feature ganesha
within your murad
[Music]
foreign
and just try to feel
in our muladhara chakra
see what we feel
feel lightness you can feel coolness you
can
feel something moving
maybe we do not feel anything
just now see mata you talked a lot about
thoughtlessness
in our meditation you should try to
reach that state of thoughtlessness
our attention has to be thoughtless
because our attention
always moves everywhere
does not allow us
to be in the thoughtless state
and when we
reach that state of thoughtless
attention
[Music]
then it is here it is easier to go into
the
sahasrara
so we can
all
listen to amruthani of sri mataji
in which
mataji talks about the importance of
having a thoughtless attention
[Music]
so
the best thing for all of you is
to become thoughtless
that's the blessing of christ
that's what he worked it out for
and i'm sure
if you work it out then don't pay
attention to others
don't react
just don't react
everything they will see they'll react
what is the need
what is the use
what are you going to do with that
reaction
this reaction creates nothing but triple
of thoughts
in your mind i have told you hundreds of
times
and now
you have to become
absolutely thoughtless
after this puja
if that happens
i think we have achieved a lot
that's the biggest blessing that christ
has given you
which you should really enjoy
then only
this akash that when
and how it works
through your attention
it works with me as you know
with my attention i work out many things
how
just my attention has become thoughtless
just thoughtless
it goes wherever it goes it works
but if you put your attention
for thought all the time
for thinking
then
it doesn't do the work that it is
supposed to do
attention works marvelously
if you are thoughtless otherwise it does
so it has to rise
from your own self
then
from others
to the higher level
of humanity
where you are in communication
with the sky
which we can call it as the
matra
or the essential or the essence
of ether
with ether you can have teddy vision you
can have teddy phone it's a miracle
otherwise
but with this danmatra
sitting down here
you can do the job
it works
just attention works i know that
you also know very well
they don't have to ask me to put the
attention
you just put the attention and it will
work
the very important thing
that you have got
i think that is the first thing
once you have
no problem
but we start
manifesting from the
earth element
then from the agni element then from the
jelly element
and then we come to tejas
the face starts shine
but lastly we get this
thoughtless awareness by which our
attention
is absolutely freak to do
some
special work
but if you are all the time thinking
then poor this attention
is so busy
so very busy
you don't have to ask me then
mother please pay attention you can pay
attention
and you can work it out
in this situation
you don't feel
what you got what you are standing
what you are wearing
what others are
doing no
nothing
you are one with yourself
so we will meditate on
adna chakra
and keep our otherwise open
[Music]
these are the photos of
mahashivratri puja
76 or 77
they let me put all my thoughts
all my result your lotus feet
please give me the blessings of
thoughtless attention
closeness is called
attention is called cheetah
one of his toes upon us is called
like
moksha pradhani
[Music]
foreign
try to see can close our eyes
inside if you
can maintain this state of
thoughtlessness
as we know shri ganesha is
present on all the chakras
so nadna chakra we can awaken his
qualities
by saying shri ganesha shisha
with the right hand on the surface on
the
crosswise and put it on the forehead
press it
bend over head slightly in the front
and you can say shri ganesha of shisha
[Music]
i
we can take down our hand
we'll realize that
there are no thoughts
literally see the thoughtlessness
like a blank screen on the television
you can also hear the silence within us
absolute silence
we can feel the vibrations in our hands
with your attention on the sahasrara let
us remain in this state for some time
so that the state is
more established
before we go and meet srimati in the
sahasrara
now we can
put our
the palm of our right hand on the
sahasrara
bend our hand
head
in the front
fully immediately ask shri mataji her
permission
to come in our domain
please accept me as your child
whatever limitations whatever
drawbacks i have
let me feel the joy of sahasrara
let me feel the nirananda
please give me the blessings of
nirvikalpa
in my sahasrara
capacity
so you can just say once the mantra
[Music]
you can just raise your hand a little
bit
try to feel the vibrations coming out of
your sacral
your hand more and more
you still feel the cool bridge coming
out
then you can
put down the hand
starts the second and the most important
stage of meditation
where we do not do anything
here you just be
first stage is called nyasa is the
preparation where we
say the mantras we say the affirmations
we listen to the talk
we do everything
here we don't do anything just
be in the presence of shri mataji
suck our vibrations towards us that's
all
let's be in this state for some time
this is when srimati nourishes us
thank you srimati thank you very much
for giving us this opportunity to be in
your company
allow us to feel the sahasrara
and to take us into the state of
nirukalpa
thank you again and again
jesus we can
sing the three maha mantras
[Music]
my
[Applause]
is
[Music]
the
oh
[Music]
foreign
street
[Music]
[Applause]
my
[Music]
we can all bow down to srimati
and slowly put abandon
so we can
end this
small session
prayer to srimatiji
srimatuji
in these four sessions
i have tried to
share
the blissful moments
at the opportunity
to be with you
to share the miracles
share the experiences
if during this sharing
[Music]
i've done any mistakes
in the protocol
or if any
anywhere my ego is interfering
ask
for your forgiveness
from my heart
my only desire
that my brothers and sisters
should
all go into the nirvikalpa state
before 21
march 2023
and if these sessions
help them to realize srimati
who is adi shakti
it will be a very humble offering
jai shri mataji
wonderful meditation session
i don't think there is anything left to
say the experience was
truly wonderful to say the beast
the prayer to mother uncle will end
today's session
to everyone who's listening to these
sessions as mentioned earlier
links to earlier session can be found
in the description of this particular
session
please do go through those particular
sessions as well there are some
beautiful experiences
which abdul kankala shared
uh in those session as well
we would like to thank mother for
blessing us
with this wonderful session and these
series of sessions
uh with today's session will end these
series of sessions we'll try and
formulate some other series as well
shortly
but this is the last session in the
[Music]
my love to all